docs: documentation for adding new benchmark to metriq-gym (#287)
unitaryfund/metriq-gym: docs/source/adding_new_benchmark.rst

Adding a New Benchmark
######################

> This guide explains how to integrate a new benchmark into **metriq-gym**. You'll learn how to:

Reviewer: I don't know if I consider this a "learning"

Author: True, I reworded it to be:

```
This guide explains how to integrate a new benchmark into **metriq-gym**. The process involves several steps:
```

1. Define the core Python structures (classes and :code:`dataclass` objects).
2. Create a JSON Schema to validate benchmark parameters.
3. Provide an example schema for convenience.
4. Register the new benchmark within the package so it becomes accessible to the rest of the system.

Defining a New Benchmark
************************

1. **Create a New Python File**

   In the :file:`benchmarks` directory of the :code:`metriq-gym` package, add a new file named
   :file:`benchmarks/<NEW_BENCHMARK>.py` (replace :code:`<NEW_BENCHMARK>` with a descriptive name).

2. **Implement the Benchmark Class**

   In this new file, define a class that inherits from :code:`Benchmark`. You must override:

>    - :code:`dispatch_handler()`: Houses the logic for dispatching and scheduling the benchmark job to the quantum device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - :code:`dispatch_handler()`: Houses the logic for preprocessing and dispatching the benchmark job to the quantum device. This may includes things like creating the circuits, running those circuits on classical simulators, etc.
```

   - :code:`poll_handler()`: Houses the logic for retrieving and processing results from the quantum device or simulator.

3. **Create the Data Classes**

>    Define two :code:`dataclass` objects: one to store the input parameters (inheriting from :code:`BenchmarkData`), and one

Reviewer: The class that inherits from BenchmarkData actually contains intermediate data after pre-processing and dispatching. The input parameters are in `self.params` and `self.args`

       from metriq_gym.benchmarks.benchmark import (
           Benchmark,
           BenchmarkData,
           BenchmarkResult,
       )

       @dataclass
       class NewBenchmarkResult(BenchmarkResult):
           """Stores the result(s) from running New Benchmark."""
           pass

       @dataclass
       class NewBenchmarkData(BenchmarkData):
           """Stores the input parameters or metadata for New Benchmark."""
           pass

       class NewBenchmark(Benchmark):
           """Benchmark class for New Benchmark experiments."""

           def dispatch_handler(
               self,
               device: QuantumDevice
           ) -> NewBenchmarkData:
               # TODO: Implement logic for dispatching the job
               pass

           def poll_handler(
               self,
               job_data: BenchmarkData,
               result_data: list[GateModelResultData]
           ) -> NewBenchmarkResult:
               # TODO: Implement logic for retrieving and processing results
               pass

Defining the Schema
*******************

To standardize and validate the input parameters for each benchmark, **metriq-gym** uses JSON Schema. Add a new

> file named :file:`new_benchmark.schema.json` to the :file:`schemas/` directory:

Reviewer: Make it clear that what follows is an example of a schema

Author: Sounds good, I've added the following clause to make this more clear:

```
 Note that this schema file is just an example and should be modified to fit the specific requirements of your benchmark.
```

                "examples": [1000]
            },
            "...": {
                "description": "Placeholder for additional properties as needed."
            }
        },
        "required": ["benchmark_name", "num_qubits"]
    }

This schema ensures that any job payload for the new benchmark meets the required format and constraints.

Example Schema
**************

Provide a sample JSON file demonstrating how to supply parameters for this benchmark. Place this file in
:file:`schemas/examples/new_benchmark.example.json`:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "benchmark_name": "New Benchmark",
        "num_qubits": 5,
        "shots": 1000
    }

This file offers a reference for developers and users on how to structure the JSON payload for your new benchmark.

Registering the New Benchmark
*****************************

1. **Add to job_type.py**

   Open the :file:`metriq_gym/job_type.py` file and register your new benchmark in the :code:`JobType` enumeration:

   .. code-block:: python

       from metriq_gym.job_type import JobType
       from enum import StrEnum

       class JobType(StrEnum):
           NEW_BENCHMARK = "New Benchmark"
           ...

> 2. **Initialize in benchmarks/__init__.py**

Reviewer: This makes me think that perhaps job_type.py should be in the same file as well...

Author: Yeah, I think this was something we had previously discussed, but we were involved in refactoring another part of the codebase and didn't want to conflate that MR with too many moving parts. In general though, I still agree with that restructuring. I opened an issue to track that here:
https://github.com/unitaryfoundation/metriq-gym/issues/294
